# PROJECT
---------
Comic Mischief
--------------
Use variables and types in the Go programming language to maintain the catalog of items in your comic book store Comic Mischief.

Tasks
23/23 Complete
Mark the tasks as complete by checking them off

Creating Our Basic Go Program
-----------------------------
1.
Let’s start by making a basic Go program. Before anything, we should declare our package information. In Go, this is done with the line package main. Type this as the first line of the program.


Hint
Add in the following line:

package main
as the first line of your program.

2.
Next we want to print out our data to the terminal, so we’ll be using the fmt package. Import fmt into our Go program.


Hint
There’s multiple ways to import a package, either using the one-liner syntax:

import "fmt"
Or using multiple lines in case you need to import many packages:

import (
  "fmt"
)
3.
Now let’s create our base program by adding in a main function.


Hint
Define your main function with the following code:

func main() {
 
}
Defining Our Comic Book Variables
4.
Now let’s define the variables we’re going to use to store the data for each comic book. Comics have: a publisher, a writer, an artist, a title, a year they were released in, a grade for its condition, and a page number.

Let’s start by defining our string-type data. Define variables for publisher, writer, artist, and title. Make all of these variables strings!


Hint
We can define each of these variables line by line:

var publisher string
var writer string
var artist string
var title string
Or we can use a shorthand to define all of these variables in a single line:

var publisher, writer, artist, title string
5.
Let’s start defining the numeric variables, we have two integers that we need to define: the year and the page number.

Define integer variables called year and pageNumber.


Hint
There are many different integer types, which depends strongly on what values we expect our variables to take. It wouldn’t make sense, for instance, to give our year value a type of int8, which has a max value of 127. The default 16 or 32 bit integers will probably work fine, however. Since we don’t really expect either of these numbers to ever be negative, we could use unsigned integers.

var year uint
var pageNumber uint
6.
We’ll need to define our condition grade. This is a score from 0.0 to 10.0 with decimal values. Because of the decimal values, we’ll need to use a float to store it.

Create a grade variable that is a float32.


Hint
We don’t need extra precision, so float32 is going to be more than enough for our grade. Define it with the following line:

var grade float32
7.
Let’s use all of our variables in a series of fmt.Println statements! We want to output all the information from each of our comic books in a way that is repeatable, so be sure to format all of our information in a human-readable way.

We can use commas to separate string literals from variables and Println() will give us spaces between the things we input, so we can write something like:

fmt.Println(title, "written by", writer, "drawn by", artist)
Fill in the rest of the variables to give a full depiction of the comic book in question!


Hint
Click the save button to see the zero values of your message with the zero values in the terminal.

Assigning Our Comic Book Variables: Mr. GoToSleep
8.
We finally have our first comic book to keep track of, let’s use software to manage it!

We’ll be adding this variable and the variables for the following steps above the print statement we previously just created. The honor of our first comic book goes to the award-winning "Mr. GoToSleep". Assign that value to title.

Click the save button to see the output change in the terminal. As we continue to assign variables their values, save the code and watch the outputs change as well!


Hint
Assign a value to title using the following syntax:

title = "Mr. GoToSleep"
9.
We need to give the author her due credit, store the author’s name "Tracey Hatchet" in our writer variable.

10.
Let’s keep the momentum going by storing the artist, the American legend herself "Jewel Tampson".

11.
Be sure to save the publisher of this graphic novel, "DizzyBooks Publishing Inc." as well.

12.
This copy of Mr. GoToSleep came out in 1997 so let’s use that value as our year.

13.
It’s a floppy comic so it’s only got 14 pages. Save that value in our pageNumber variable.

14.
Our beloved vintage Mr. GoToSleep comic has unfortunately seen some wear-and-tear in the intervening decades and is currently valued at a 6.5 in terms of condition. Assign that value to its grade.

Remember to save the code to see the full message with their intended values printed!

Reassigning our Comic Book Variables: Epic
15.
We’re going to add another comic book, but since we want to keep the print out of first comic’s details, copy the existing print statement and paste the new statement right below existing statement.

We’ll be assigning new variables in between these two print statements to observe how values change depending on where in the code they’re located.


Hint
If your print statement looks like:

fmt.Println(title, "written by", writer, "drawn by", artist)
Copy it and paste it again right under your existing print statement:

fmt.Println(title, "written by", writer, "drawn by", artist)
 
// Assigns will go here
 
fmt.Println(title, "written by", writer, "drawn by", artist)
We’ll be updating our existing variables in between these print statements.

16.
Our next comic book is the esteemed first trade paperback of the incredible comic Epic. Reassign title to "Epic Vol. 1", remember add this code in between the two print statements.

Save the code to see how our output changes!


Hint
Your code should look something like:

// Previous code...
fmt.Println(title, "written by", writer, "drawn by", artist)
 
title = "Epic Vol. 1"
 
fmt.Println(title, "written by", writer, "drawn by", artist)
17.
The author, a noted comics writer in his own right, is named Ryan N. Shawn. Reassign the writer variable to give the writer his due credit.


Hint
You’ll need to reassign the string "Ryan N. Shawn" to writer.

18.
Reassign artist with our current artist’s name, the Spiegeler-winning "Phoebe Paperclips".

19.
We have the same publisher as last time "DizzyBooks Publishing Inc.", so we don’t have to reassign it here. But we can if we were trying to be diligent about having all the information in one place.


Hint
“Re”-assigning publisher a value of "DizzyBooks Publishing Inc." won’t have show any visible changes because it already has a value of "DizzyBooks Publishing Inc.".

20.
Epic Vol. 1 was released in 2013, so use that number to update our year variable.

21.
As a trade paperback it’s a compilation of a few floppy comics and comes out to 160 pages. Use that value to store over our pageNumber variable.

22.
This comic is in fantastic condition but has a small shipping defect, warranting a 9.0 for its grade.

Finished!
23.
Good job, you’ve gotten plenty of experience creating new variables and you’re set up to learn what’s next!

If you want to challenge yourself, consider:

Adding more variables that store a comic’s data (like the genre).
Create another comic series, with own unique set of variables.
Perform some computation using the age, grade, and pageNumber to calculate the cost of the comic book.
You can do it!

main.go
-------
package main

import "fmt"
  
func main () {
  var publisher, writer, artist, title string
  var year, pageNumber uint
  var grade float32

  title = "Mr. GoToSleep"
  writer = "Tracey Hatchet"
  artist = "Jewel Tampson"
  publisher = "DizzyBooks Publishing Inc."
  year = 1997
  pageNumber = 14
  grade = 6.5

  fmt.Println(title, "Written By", writer, "Drawn By", artist, "Published in", year, "Number of Pages", pageNumber, "Published by", publisher, "Rate", grade)

  fmt.Println("")

  title = "Epic Vol. 1"
  writer = "Ryan N. Shawn"
  artist = "Phoebe Paperclips"
  publisher = "DizzyBooks Publishing Inc."
  year = 2013
  pageNumber = 160
  grade = 9.0

   fmt.Println(title, "Written By", writer, "Drawn By", artist, "Published in", year, "Number of Pages", pageNumber, "Published by", publisher, "Rate", grade)
}